# CS-471 Compiler Construction C
I am working on compiler consturction which is a part of the CS-471 Compiler Construction C lab, offered by the Department of Computer Science at the University of Engineering and Technology (UET), Lahore. The objective of this project is to design and implement a compiler that translates code from a high-level programming language into an intermediate or machine-level representation.

## Course & Instructor
- Course: CS-471 Compiler Construction C
- Instructor: Mr. Laeeq Khan Niazi
- Institution: UET Lahore

# Task 0

## Lexical Analyzer
Lexical analyzer creates the tokens for the source program. It
The lexical analyzer (or lexer) is the first phase of the compilation process. Its primary function is to scan the source code and break it down into meaningful units called tokens. These tokens represent the smallest components of the language, such as keywords, identifiers, operators, literals, and symbols. The lexer identifies these components by analyzing character sequences and classifying them into predefined categories, like integers, variables, or operators. 

For the Phase I, my lexical analyzer handles whitespace, numbers, and keywords such as int, if, and return, ensuring that the input is transformed into a structured list of tokens for further analysis.

## Syntax Analyzer
The syntax analyzer (or parser) takes the tokens generated by the lexical analyzer and verifies whether they form a syntactically valid structure according to the rules of the programming language. This process involves checking the arrangement of tokens against the language's grammar and producing a parse tree or an abstract syntax tree (AST). 

The parser in this first phase identifies various programming constructs, such as declarations, assignments, conditional statements, and return statements. If the sequence of tokens does not conform to the expected syntax, the parser raises an error, ensuring that only correctly structured programs proceed to the next compilation phase.

# Task 1
To read the file from the command line. We need to follow:
- `g++ parser.cpp -o parser.exe`
- `./parser.exe text.txt`

# Task 2
To display the line number of the error, i added the line variable to the `Token Struct`. Line number of error is possible to detect from the parser class. So, when the token of `\n` comes in code, program add the line number in the `TOKENS VECTOR`. After that i have changed the error messagges to human friendly readable way.

# Task 3
I have added support for more data types in the lexical analyzer. In addition to detecting `int`, the lexer now recognizes `float`, `double`, `string`, `bool`, and `char` as valid data types. When the lexer encounters any of these keywords, it classifies them as tokens of their respective types, ensuring that these data types are correctly processed during tokenization.

# Task 4
I have added support for `while` and `do while` statements in the syntax analyzer. The parser now recognizes these keywords, allowing it to correctly process their respective constructs. The `parseWhileStatement` `method` checks for the while keyword and its associated expression and statement, while the `parseDoWhileStatement` method handles the `do while` construct, ensuring that the syntax is validated according to the language's grammar.

# Task 5
I have replaced the if-else block with the keywords agar-magar. So, the user can write agar instead of if and magar instead of else block. I have also added the `parseAgarStatment` that is much similar to the the  `parseIfStatement`.